===PAGE 1===
Transformation
MORGAN
LEADING THE FUTURE
2030
STRATEGIC GOALS 2021–2030

===PAGE 2===
Transformation
MORGAN
LEADING THE FUTURE
2030
Table of Contents
3 Institutional Profile
4 A Message From the
President
6 Vision Statement
7 Our Mission
8 Our Core Values
12 Strategic Planning at
Morgan State University
19 Strategic Goals,
2021–2030
23 Strategic Priorities and
Benchmarks 2021–2030
36 Enterprise Planning at
Morgan State University:
The Road Ahead
Transformation2030
2
MORGAN

===PAGE 3===
Institutional
Profile
F
Founded in 1867, Morgan State University, is a Carnegie-classified,
doctoral, high-research institution providing instruction to a multiethnic,
multiracial, multinational student body and offering nearly 140 academic
programs leading to degrees from the baccalaureate to the doctorate.
As Maryland’s preeminent public urban research university, Morgan
fulfills its mission to address the needs and challenges of a distinctively
urban environment.
Since its inception, the University has graduated more than 55,000 degree
recipients and presently retains an enrollment exceeding 8,000 students.
Morgan alumni can be found in diverse leadership positions and have
earned distinction in every field of academic and professional endeavor.
Morgan is one of the nation’s most diverse Historically Black Colleges and
Universities (HBCUs) and is the largest HBCU in the State of Maryland.
The University’s impressive 185-acre campus has been recently designated
as a National Treasure by the National Trust for Historic Preservation.
Morgan State University (MSU) has a $1 billion economic impact in
Greater Baltimore and the state of Maryland. In addition, the University
directly or indirectly supports 6,900 jobs statewide each year. Alumni
living and working in Maryland earn an estimated $535 million a year due
to the education and credentials they earned from MSU.
The University is fully accredited by the Middle States Commission on
Higher Education and by the Maryland State Department of Education.
The Academic Affairs Division of the University is organized around
eleven schools/colleges: the James H. Gilliam, Jr. College of Liberal Arts,
the School of Architecture and Planning, the Earl G. Graves School of
Business and Management, the School of Community Health and Policy,
the School of Computer, Mathematical and Natural Sciences, the School
of Education and Urban Studies, the Clarence M. Mitchell School of
Engineering, the School of Global Journalism and Communication,
the School of Social Work, the College of Continuing Education and
Interdisciplinary Studies and the School of Graduate Studies.
3
MORGAN.EDU LEADING THE FUTURE

===PAGE 4===
The Morgan State University
Leadership Imperative: A Message from the President
I
I take this opportunity to thank all who participated in and contributed to the formulation of this strategic plan.
Our Transformation Morgan 2030: Leading the Future plan constitutes an amalgamation of vital inputs from
various individual shareholders and constituent groups who have given generously of their time and expertise to
produce this blueprint for the strategic advancement of Morgan State University, 2021-2030. As in previous years,
our consultative strategic planning processes have been both intentional and directional.
At its core, this planning effort reflects our need to prepare the University for strategic growth and continued
ascendency over the next ten years. Moreover, it reflects our concerted and continuous pursuit of excellence
and a renewed commitment to fulfilling the University’s vital mission. Animated by that spirit, this plan (in
large measure) focuses on human resource priorities, institutional capacity-building and the development
of an organizational infrastructure that can best foster sustainable growth over the next ten years, and
beyond. Embedded in this goal is our determination to realize greater operational excellence in our various
organizational systems and processes and address needed improvements in our overall service delivery.
A FOCUS ON LEADERSHIP student achievement is optimized and celebrated
and where leadership development is a purposeful
This planning effort began in January 2020 with a
institutional goal.
thoughtful examination of our distinctive mission
and a reaffirmation of the core values that have served At Morgan, it is commonly understood that our
this venerable institution well for so many years. emerging leaders will be mission-oriented and will
Those enduring values remain an integral part of our ultimately aspire to be a force for good in the world.
institutional inheritance. Foremost among those In brief, there has always been an explicit expectation
bedrock values is the concept of leadership, in all of its that Morgan students and alumni would continue
forms and expressions. Since its inception in 1867, this to heed the call to servant leadership, thereby
institution has focused on the quintessential goal to dedicating themselves to the broader struggle of
prepare its students to assume dynamic leadership overcoming and eradicating barriers to social justice,
roles in their chosen professions and communities. economic empowerment and engaged citizenship.
Like any viable institution, Morgan State University That leadership imperative is further expressed
continues to measure its success by the success of its in our renewed strategic intention to deepen
students and alumni. And that is as it should be. Thus, and expand our role as an anchor institution in
a significant aspect of this plan focuses on creating Baltimore City and beyond.
a dynamic living-learning environment where
Transformation2030
4
MORGAN

===PAGE 5===
A SEARCH FOR SOLUTIONS TO SOCIETY’S needs. Ideally, this will entail the acquisition of more
MOST PRESSING CHALLENGES impactful and transformational gifts that enhance
our capacities and meaningfully convey our overall
Today, our sprawling campus provides indisputable
investment-worthiness to the broader corporate and
evidence of a thriving living-learning environment
philanthropic community.
populated by students, faculty and staff collectively
committed to intellectual discovery, cutting- Through this multidimensional plan, we intensify
edge research and the interdisciplinary and our culture of continuous improvement and set out
transdisciplinary search for solutions to social on a journey beginning with a candid assessment
problems that are growing in size and complexity. of our institutional strengths, recognizing the
Of necessity, these inquiries must be fortified tremendous challenges and opportunities that lay
by the realization of internal synergies, new ahead. In retrospect, we have advanced as a venerable,
collaborative research agendas and effective service-oriented institution rooted in and rigorously
synergistic partnerships with private organizations reaffirming its core values. Today, we constitute a
and governmental agencies operating in the public dynamic living-learning community that embraces
interest. In this regard, our plan boldly puts forth the the same sentiment and pursuit of excellence invoked
goal of elevating Morgan State University as a leading by our campus designation as “a national treasure.”
and nationally-recognized research institution that In outlook, we are clearly a dynamic institution
has justifiably secured Carnegie classification as poised for greatness and strategic growth on an
an “R1 institution.” Suffice it to say here, that the unprecedented scale. This is work that is undeniably
benefits of such an important designation are indeed worthy of our time, talent and treasure. This is the
sweeping and incalculable. necessary and ennobling work that will enable us
to harness our collective strengths and solidify
EXPANDING OUR GLOBAL FOOTPRINT our future. This is visionary and constructive work
Finally, this plan reflects and affirms a distinctive that will ensure our institutional viability well into
strategic thrust to internationalize our curriculum the 21st century.
and expand the University’s global footprint. In an
age of rapid globalization, we seek to extend our reach A NEW DECADE OF STRATEGIC GROWTH
into countries in critical need of educational services Today, we stand poised to usher in a new decade of
and interventions. This will require forging enduring strategic growth; one that will build upon Morgan
cross-national partnerships, enhancing international State University’s well-earned reputation as an
student and faculty diversity on campus and institutional leader and a dynamic training ground for
developing effective models and educational delivery the education of responsible and responsive leaders,
systems targeting underserved populations. We view particularly at a time such as this. Through this plan,
such initiatives as a logical and necessary extension of our time-honored mission will be fulfilled as we
the Morgan Global leadership imperative finding fuller chart an intentional pathway to meet contemporary
expression on a much wider international stage. and foreseeable challenges and opportunities and
effectively position Morgan State University in the
GROWING OUR RESOURCES forefront of the higher educational enterprise. This is
In summary, the execution of this plan will require a vision that is truly worthy of renewed dedication and
our best energies and an unwavering determination our best efforts. This is a bold undertaking, grounded
to give full expression to our longstanding leadership in our institutional legacy and focused on a future
imperative. Yet as a practical matter, the fulfillment marked by academic preeminence and the realization
of this plan is largely resource-contingent. That said, of limitless possibilities! Morgan aims to grow the
we must embrace a well-coordinated and shared future in talent development in producing evidenced-
approach to institutional advancement aimed at based research addressing urban challenges through
significantly expanding our human and monetary innovation. I invite you to partner with us in
resource base and reinforcing our financial solvency advancing this shared vision.
in the years ahead. This can be best achieved by
improving our private sector fundraising efforts and
securing additional research and training grants that
meet pressing human development and workforce David K. Wilson
President
5
MORGAN.EDU LEADING THE FUTURE

===PAGE 6===
VISION
Statement
Morgan State University is the
premier public urban research
university in Maryland, known
for excellence in teaching,
intensive research, effective
public service and community
engagement. Morgan prepares
diverse and competitive
graduates for success in a global,
interdependent society.
Transformation2030
6
MORGAN

===PAGE 7===
Our
MISSION
Morgan State University serves the community,
region, state, nation and world as an intellectual
and creative resource by supporting,
empowering and preparing high-quality, diverse
graduates to lead the world. The University
offers innovative, inclusive and distinctive
educational experiences to a broad cross-
section of the population in a comprehensive
range of disciplines at the baccalaureate,
master’s, doctoral and professional degree
levels. Through collaborative pursuits,
scholarly research, creative endeavors and
dedicated public service, the University gives
significant priority to addressing societal
problems, particularly those prevalent in
urban communities.
7
MORGAN.EDU LEADING THE FUTURE

===PAGE 8===
Our Core
VALUES
Leadership
Morgan seeks to provide rigorous academic curricula and challenging
co-curricular opportunities to promote the development of leadership
qualities in students and to facilitate leadership development among
faculty, staff, and students.
Integrity
Morgan expects honest communication, ethical behavior,
and accountability for words and deeds from all members of
the University community.
Innovation
Morgan encourages and supports its faculty, staff, and students in all forms of
scholarship including the discovery and application of knowledge in teaching
and learning and in developing innovative products and processes.
Transformation2030
8
MORGAN

===PAGE 9===
Diversity
Morgan welcomes and supports a broad diversity of people and ideas
as essential to quality education in a global interdependent society.
Students will have reasonable and affordable access to a comprehensive
range of high-quality educational programs and services.
Excellence
To ensure institutional effectiveness and efficiency, Morgan continuously
pursues excellence in teaching, research, scholarship, creative endeavors,
student services and all aspects of the University’s operation.
Respect
Morgan treats each person equitably with respect and
dignity in all situations.
9
MORGAN.EDU LEADING THE FUTURE

===PAGE 10===
Building
on a Solid
FOUNDATION
Transformation2030
10
MORGAN

===PAGE 11===
Carrying
Our Vision
and Values
into the
FUTURE…
11
MORGAN.EDU LEADING THE FUTURE

===PAGE 12===
STRATEGIC
PLANNING
at Morgan State University
Transformation2030
12
MORGAN

===PAGE 13===
N
LEANING FORWARD: THE STRATEGIC PLANNING IMPERATIVE
Now more than ever, institutions of higher learning have had to rethink their business models and conduct
strategic planning, particularly in an indefinite and increasingly competitive educational marketplace. Most
recently, the ongoing COVID pandemic has tested the adaptability and agility of colleges and universities,
forcing them to effectively pivot and quickly adopt new methods of educational service delivery that are safe,
effective and cost efficient. In addition, shifting demographic trends and economic considerations are fueling
a preference for asynchronous learning and a heightened demand for more flexible and affordable on-line
educational options.
In a broader perspective, racial and social injustices, health disparities, and economic inequalities are bringing
into sharper focus the roles progressive colleges and universities might play in formulating and implementing
interdisciplinary and innovative solutions to these problems. The escalating scale and complexity of these
problems will require thoughtful collaboration with other responsive organizations and agencies. Operating
in this context, Morgan State University is obliged to reexamine its strategic directions and forge new strategic
partnerships, predicated on its research aspirations and the fulfillment of its distinctive urban mission.
At the center of our planning efforts is a transformational vision to grow and position Morgan State University as
a dynamic epicenter for the convergence of scholarship, research and advocacy. Thus, we are determined to play
a preeminent role in the cross-fertilization, integration and application of ideas, practices and pedagogies that
promote scientific and technological innovation, entrepreneurial prowess and dynamic leadership for a global
community in pursuit of economic justice and sustainable peace and prosperity.
OUR STRATEGIC PLANNING PROCESSES and foreseeable demographic and workforce trends
and critical needs throughout the Greater Baltimore
With the endorsement and support of the University’s
region, the nation at large and the global community.
Board of Regents, President David K. Wilson was
tasked with engaging the campus community and From the outset, our Transformation Morgan
the University’s various constituency groups in the 2030 plan involved a decidedly transparent and
development of a ten-year strategic plan covering the consultative process. Accordingly, President Wilson
period, 2021-2030. Such a plan was viewed as a logical launched this planning initiative in January 2020 by
extension of the University’s previous strategic plan appointing a Strategic Planning Steering Committee
entitled, Growing the Future, Leading the World: to be chaired by Dr. Don-Terry Veal, the University’s
The Strategic Plan for Morgan State University, 2011- Chief of Staff. The Committee was comprised of
2021. As envisioned, the resultant strategic plan faculty, students, staff, alumni, administrators, deans
would help to strategically position and advance the and representatives from the local community.
University along carefully chosen lines of established This committee adopted guiding principles that
excellence and opportunity. were closely followed. Those principles were
intentionally consistent with the University’s mission,
Building on the success of the previous planning effort
vision and core values.
and the subsequent growth of the University over the
past ten years, a new and equally inclusive strategic The committee then developed and executed a
plan was imagined. As in the previous undertaking, structured and methodical planning process.
this new plan similarly takes into consideration Project tasks, milestones, and deliverables were
the University’s strengths and underscores the identified and approved. This entailed conducting
importance of synergistic engagements with internal environmental scans to determine the
organizations and agencies based on a solid mutuality current state of affairs in key units and departments
of purpose. Likewise, this updated plan surveys the and collecting and interpreting data from various
higher educational landscape to determine current internal sources including, but not limited to: The
13
MORGAN.EDU LEADING THE FUTURE

===PAGE 14===
Office of Institutional Research, the Office of Human to minimize risk and maximize success by conducting
Resources, the Office of Finance and Management and SWOT (strengths, weaknesses, opportunities, and
the Office of Enrollment Management. In addition, threats) analyses and mapped resources to strategic
the Committee administered surveys and conducted initiatives thereby demonstrating how those
focus groups and town hall meetings. initiatives might be adequately funded and supported
over a multi-year period. In addition, it proposed
The committee also received analytical reports
key performance metrics and memorialized all work
from consultants and senior management and staff;
and recommendations put forth in a final report.
reviewed existing divisional goals; determined ways
Subcommittees were formed and various tasks
assigned to each. Subcommittees worked in a way to
integrate strategies and scrutinize their results. Their
SUBCOMMITTEE overall process is depicted in Figure 1 below.
PROCESS
Figure 1
Transformation2030
14
MORGAN

===PAGE 15===
An external consultant met with the committee to ensure that it considered national as well as global issues
and trends that are projected to significantly impact the University. This consultant also proposed sufficient
quantitative benchmarks to permit the measurement of the committee’s proposed goals and objectives. Sample
issues that were discussed are cited in Figure 2 below.
9 DURABLE HIGHER EDUCATION TRENDS AMPLIFIED BY COVID-19
1 Demographic Cliff 2 Diversity & 3 Affordability &
Inclusion Imperative Value Misunderstood
High school graduates
and international student Struggle to close high High school graduates
demand will peak in 2026 achievement gap persists while and international student
and sharply decline. incoming student body is demand will peak in 2026
increasingly diverse. and sharply decline.
4 Increasing Recognition 5 Diversity & 6 EdTech Brings New
of Student Inclusion Imperative Enablers & Competitors
Mental Health Needs
COVID-19 forced remote Tech has spread rapidly
Mental and emotional health learning adoption quickly and provides higher
issues are on the rise and will and this trend appears education with new
continue to increase. to be increasing at enablers while introducing
an accelerated pace. competition and disruptions.
7 Future of Work is Now and 8 Interdisciplinary Research 9 Financial Instability Brings
in a Sharp Downturn Becomes the Norm in the Consolidation & Stressors
Battle for Funding
Automation has had an Financial pressures are
unprecedented impact on Federal funding decreases increasing amidst State
work and graduates will have while research landscape funding cuts and industry
difficulty finding employment. reorganizes to focus on consolidation and closures.
interdisciplinary and
new capabilities.
Figure 2
15
MORGAN.EDU LEADING THE FUTURE

===PAGE 16===
Our Strengths
CHARTING INSTITUTIONAL STRENGTHS
AND OPPORTUNITIES
Of a preliminary nature, the Steering Committee
1. Strong brand and reputation as a producer of
took stock of a number of notable institutional
longstanding leadership in government, civil
strengths that point to opportunities for
rights and social advocacy.
sustainable growth. These strengths provide
competitive advantages that can and should be 2. A recognized leader in graduating African
effectively leveraged over the next ten years. Americans entering the STEM disciplines.
3. Strong, visionary executive leadership
and management team.
4. Solid fiscal management and bond ratings.
5. Strong financial health.
6. An aggressive campus master plan that is
constantly adding new state-of-the-art facilities.
7. Healthy shared governance process, constituent
engagement, and broad-based support.
8. Diverse, dedicated, and expert faculty,
administrators, and staff.
9. Comprehensive educational system
that continuously adds innovative and
high-demand academic programs with
specialized accreditation.
10. A continuous focus on improving student success,
including retention and graduation.
11. Comprehensive and individualized support
structure that transforms students of every
background to excel and overcome difficult
socio-economic barriers.
12. Emphasis on student life and engagement
fostering leadership potential.
13. Ever-expanding global footprint and strategic
international and domestic academic program
and student internship partnerships.
14. Growing diverse student body and a welcoming,
inclusive environment.
15. Great financial value for the quality of
education received.
16. Advanced research capabilities and strong
business/industry relationships.
17. Recognized institutional leader in
the performing arts.
18. Athletics program producing several
Hall of Fame athletes.
19. Geographic location (proximity to Washington
DC and the tri-state area).
Transformation2030
16
MORGAN

===PAGE 17===
Our Opportunities and Aspirations
1. Become a global educational enterprise. 12. Build state-of-the-art laboratories.
2. Enhance the educational experience of 13. Increase interdisciplinary projects
students thereby preparing them to be through strategic partnerships and
responsible global citizens. interdisciplinary collaborations.
3. Expand and increase access to education and 14. Improve infrastructure and optimize key business
modes of delivery (robust online presence). processes and supporting technologies.
4. Further develop more actively charged living and 15. Strengthen the relationship with local and global
learning communities. communities and foster greater economic, civic,
and cultural development in the region through
5. Devise and execute a plan to reach the Carnegie
applied research and advocacy to help mitigate
R1 classification.
and help solve critical urban issues.
6. Expand and improve institutional advancement
16. Administer and market personal enrichment and
processes with a view to cultivate major gifts and
professional development education and training
transformational investments.
programs and create/facilitate internship and
7. Stimulate alumni giving and involvement.
apprenticeship opportunities.
8. Grow sponsored award revenue and expenditures
17. Make the University’s state-of-the-art
to at least $50M per year.
facilities available to the public through
9. Strategically add doctoral programs in the strategic programming.
humanities and social sciences.
18. Expand programs to revitalize local
10. Invest in strategic growth clusters and neighborhoods and make a lasting impact on the
funding mechanisms. quality of life of its residents.
11. Attract and retain additional quality ladder 19. Explore partnering with and bringing to
ranked faculty and staff dedicated to campus an established and reputable school of
research (e.g. doctorate-holding non-faculty osteopathic medicine.
researchers or NFRs) and make more teaching
20. Develop and institute a comprehensive renewable
assistantships available.
and sustainable energy plan.
17
MORGAN.EDU LEADING THE FUTURE

===PAGE 18===
A
ACCENTUATING OUR URBAN MISSION
Today, Morgan State University fully embraces its
designation as the State of Maryland’s preeminent
urban research institution. Accordingly, this strategic
plan was informed by a variety of external scans
and an examination of the actual and aspirational
thrusts of recognized peer institutions that have
an established urban presence. Particular attention
was paid to those that aspire to even higher levels
of civic engagement and have involved themselves
in initiatives that serve the educational, social and
economic needs of underserved urban populations.
Some of these aspirational peer institutions included:
The University of Wisconsin–Milwaukee, Portland
State University, Cleveland State University, Temple
University and Georgia State University.
This strategic plan draws upon some of their
benchmarks and relative examples and
successes in forging strategic partnerships with
governmental and non-profit organizations across
interdisciplinary lines of community service and
neighborhood revitalization.
CRITICAL GAP ANALYSES
This plan was also informed by critical gap analyses
that assessed the University’s overall progress toward
the attainment of its stated 2010-2021 goals. These
analyses allowed various units and departments to:
1) utilize key performance
indicators to gauge their level of
change and improvement over
the past ten years
2) target areas of
needed improvement, and
3) determine if their previously
stated goals should be reaffirmed,
modified or updated.
In this regard, their various analyses provided
opportunities to share critical feedback regarding
ways for the University to successively transform
itself on every level.
Transformation2030
18
MORGAN

===PAGE 19===
A
As this strategic planning process gradually unfolded, there was broad consensus that
the University’s emerging 2021–2030 strategic goals were notably consistent with its
previously stated 2010–2021 goals. In essence, it was determined that those previously
stated goals were interconnected and worthy of sustainable emphases. That being the
case, the Strategic Planning Steering Committee decided to reaffirm and reformulate
six interdependent strategic goals that required significant focusing and explication in
light of critical gap analyses, relevant trend data, updated resource needs and emerging
growth opportunities over an ensuing ten-year planning horizon.
These six interconnected strategic goals (briefly described
below) give shape and add focus and renewed expression
to our previously articulated strategic goals. In the
aggregate, they provide a framework for managing needed
organizational change and preparing the University to serve
and compete at the highest attainable level.
STRATEGIC
GOALS
2021–2030
19
MORGAN.EDU LEADING THE FUTURE

===PAGE 20===
Goal 1
Enhance Student Success
and Well-Being
Morgan strives to create an educational environment that enhances
student success by offering new academic programs and holistic co-
curricular activities in a welcoming, diverse and inclusive campus
community. The goal here is to provide students with a comprehensive
educational and transformative experience that actualizes their full
potential and empowers them to emerge as confident and competent
global citizens and dynamic leaders in their selected careers and
communities. This broadly stated goal encompasses student enrollment
and retention functions. Thus, primary and cross-sectional responsibility
for all of these functional areas is jointly shared by the Provost & Senior
Vice President, the Vice President for Enrollment Management and
Student Success (EMASS) and the Vice President for Student Affairs.
Goal 2
Implement Faculty Ascendency
and Staff Development Initiatives
The University will implement a broad range of human resource
development initiatives for the benefit of faculty and staff. These
initiatives will facilitate the ascendency of faculty to higher ranks
and provide staff with progressive opportunities for professional
development and merit-based promotions. Without question, a sharp
focus on effective human resource planning will have a direct and
determinative bearing on the execution of our overall strategic plan.
Over the next ten years, the University will need to attract, retain and
promote junior and senior faculty. Also, staff will require opportunities
to retool and acquire specialized skills leading to professional growth and
enhanced opportunities for promotion and progressive compensation.
Transformation2030
20
MORGAN

===PAGE 21===
Goal 3
Elevate Morgan’s Status to R1 Very High
Doctoral Research University
Over the next ten years, Morgan will emerge as a R1 doctoral research
university fully engaged in basic and applied research and creative
interdisciplinary inquiries undergirded and sustained through increased
research grants and contracts. The realization of this goal is predicated
on a distinctive MSU faculty presence and preeminence in STEM and
non-STEM disciplines and the strengthening of an effective educational
pipeline advancing students from the baccalaureate to the doctoral level.
This is an institution-wide goal to be pursued at the enterprise level.
Primary responsibility for achieving this goal rests with the Vice President
for Research and Economic Development working in close, inter-office
collaboration with the Provost, Deans, Faculty and all members of the
President’s senior administrative team.
Goal 4
Expand and Improve a Campus-Wide
Infrastructure to Support Operational
Excellence and Increase Overall
Institutional Capacity
Morgan will advance new construction, capital improvement, deferred
maintenance, and campus safety projects in keeping with the University’s
evolving master plan. The University will also implement an information
technology plan to accommodate and optimize operational excellence in all
aspects of its service delivery. This expanded and improved infrastructure
will accommodate a projected increase in student enrollment (traditional
and non-traditional) and a surging demand for on-line learning options.
This goal also encompasses a number of recommendations to implement
campus-wide safety measures and enhance student well-being.
21
MORGAN.EDU LEADING THE FUTURE

===PAGE 22===
Goal 5
Serve as the Premier Anchor Institution
for Baltimore City and Beyond
Morgan will expand and deepen its role as a recognized anchor
institution with broad social and economic impact. The University
will engage community residents and officials in the application
of knowledge and policy analyses derived from faculty and student
research, an appropriate sharing of mutually beneficial resources and
the deployment and utilization of University experts and professionals
to address local and regional concerns in the areas of public education,
housing, safety, employment and neighborhood revitalization. In this
way, Morgan State University will serve as a dynamic epicenter dedicated
to the generation, integration and dissemination of new knowledge as a
driving force to effect policy and catalyze meaningful social change.
Morgan State University faculty and students will be actively involved
in this work. Previous activities drew upon the expertise and experience
found in outstanding academic units such as the School of Architecture
and Planning, the School of Business and Management, the School of
Community Health and Policy, the School of Computer, Mathematical
and Natural Sciences, the School of Engineering, the School of Global
Journalism and Communication, the School of Social Work and the
School of Graduate Studies. The School of Education and Urban Studies
(SEUS) in particular will play a pivotal role in generating research that is
specific to the needs of urban K-20 learners in the city and state, and in
the design and implementation of research-based interventions that are
targeted to the needs of local residents.
Goal 6
Accelerate Global Education
Initiatives and Expand the University’s
International Footprint
Morgan will enhance its study abroad program and promote global
awareness and intercultural competencies through its diverse curricular
and co-curricular programs and activities. The University will also
increase international student enrollment and leverage its ongoing
presence in West Africa to develop effective and replicable models of
excellence in international development and responsive, market-based
educational service delivery in Latin America and the Caribbean nations.
Transformation2030
22
MORGAN

===PAGE 23===
I
In pursuit of these six interdependent goals, the
Strategic Planning Committee compiled a broad range
of programmatic and operational suggestions along with
actionable recommendations for change. Due to resource
and staffing limitations, not all of these recommendations
could be marked for immediate or gradual implementation
over a ten-year planning horizon. Still, the compendium
below provides a glance of strategic priorities and
corresponding implementation goals and benchmarks
to mark and measure the University’s progressive
transformation over the next ten years.
STRATEGIC
PRIORITIES &
BENCHMARKS
2021–2030
23
MORGAN.EDU LEADING THE FUTURE

===PAGE 24===
Goal 1
Enhance Student Success
and Well-Being
PROJECTED STUDENT ENROLLMENT AND RETENTION
7 Increase enrollment to 10,000 by the Fall, 2030 through robust on-line
offerings and aggressive recruitment and marketing initiatives.
7 Double the number of enrolled international students from 400
to 800 in ten years.
7 Maintain 70% or higher first-to-second year retention rate. Reach 50%
or higher six-year graduation rate by 2025. Reach 60% or higher six-
year graduation rate by 2030.
7 Graduate Morgan’s first Rhodes, Newman and Marshall Scholars.
7 By 2030, firmly establish and position Morgan to be amongst the top
five institutions in the nation in the production of Blacks in STEM
fields at the undergraduate level, and a top producer of Blacks who go
on to medical school and PhD programs in engineering, the natural
and social sciences, education and related fields.
7 Launch the Morgan Completes You Initiative with the following
enrollment and degree completion projections:
Degree Level Year 1 Year 2 Year 3 Year 4 Year 5
Bachelor’s 493 986 1480 1973 2466
Master’s 55 110 166 221 276
Doctoral 52 103 155 206 258
Total 600 1200 1800 2400 3000
7 Through an annual assessment, employers of Morgan graduates
will rank their satisfaction with the level of preparedness and job-
readiness of MSU graduates at the 90th percentile or higher.
Transformation2030
24
MORGAN

===PAGE 25===
MORGAN ATHLETICS
The overarching goal of the intercollegiate athletics program is to provide
a holistic student-athlete experience, designed to create leaders in the
classroom, in athletic competition and in their lifelong endeavors.
Academic achievement and competitive excellence are two core areas of
emphasis for athletics that will directly support Morgan’s strategic goal to
enhance student success and well-being.
7 Over the next ten years, the athletics department will focus on coach
and staff development.
7 During this period, the University will advance the development of
its athletics facility master plan. Targeted investments in its athletic
infrastructure and facilities will enhance operational excellence and
ideally position Morgan athletics to achieve success on a regional
and national scale.
PROMOTING STUDENT DEVELOPMENT THROUGH
NEW ACADEMIC PROGRAMMING AND HOLISTIC CO-
CURRICULAR ACTIVITIES
The Steering Committee also received and discussed a number of viable
programmatic interventions and enhancements. This process eventually
led to the recommendation to create three new deliberative bodies
charged with the responsibility to access the advisability and feasibility
of all proposed (actionable) items based on anticipated measurable
outcomes, cost-benefit considerations and sustainability over a ten-year
period. By agreement, these three deliberate bodies would be created
as standing committees, chaired and appointed by an appropriate Vice
President. They are:
1) an Academic Advisory Council,
2) a Commission on Diversity and
3) a reactivated LGBTQIA Advisory Council.
Over the next ten years, each will be expected to produce comprehensive
annual progress reports.
25
MORGAN.EDU LEADING THE FUTURE

===PAGE 26===
Goal 2
Implement Faculty Ascendency
and Staff Development Initiatives
Human resource planning is essential to the implementation of this
strategic plan and will profoundly influence the achievement of its
stated objectives. At Morgan State University, our faculty remain
at the center of our academic enterprise. The ongoing dedication,
competencies and aspirations of the faculty will propel our forward
institutional advancement and profoundly influence our teaching-
learning environment in ways that are multitudinous and far-reaching.
The bold vision animating our Transformation Morgan 2030 plan fully
acknowledges the critical role faculty will play in the near and distant
future. Our stellar faculty will be instrumental in promoting a culture
of discovery, innovation and entrepreneurship throughout our learning
community and most importantly, empower students to emerge from
their educational experiences prepared to lead the world. Consequently,
new faculty ascendency and development initiatives will inextricably
and simultaneously reinforce the University’s steady progression
toward R1 research status and the achievement of its globalization
goals and objectives.
FACULTY ASCENDENCY AND DEVELOPMENT INITIATIVES
Over the next ten years, the University will enhance its capability to
attract and retain high-caliber academic talent to the Morgan campus.
In part, this will be achieved through the establishment of a minimum
of ten (10) funded endowed chairs in vitally important academic areas,
particularly those that encourage interdisciplinary and transdisciplinary
collaborative research. Secondly, we intend to invest in pedagogical
development initiatives for faculty serving at all levels, focusing on
proven assessment tools and the utilization of new and emerging
technologies in the classroom.
The University will also target a specific percentage of faculty receiving
advanced training such as Quality Matters to promote and improve the
quality of its online educational offerings. Through these means, we seek
to significantly enhance student learning as the University adopts new
methods of educational service delivery that accommodate traditional
and nontraditional learners. Also, the University will be investing in
a number of faculty development initiatives designed to benefit both
junior-level and senior-level faculty.
Transformation2030
26
MORGAN

===PAGE 27===
The following objectives
will be pursued.
7 Morgan will launch a
professional development
program for tenured Associate
Professors designed to help
expand their academic
portfolios (through re-
engagement in cutting-edge
research and creative activities
) and make them more
STAFF DEVELOPMENT
competitive for promotion to
the rank of full professor; University staff will continue to play an equally valuable role in the
foreseeable future. These non-faculty personnel provide student support
7 By 2030, Morgan will establish
services and manage residential and non-residential extracurricular
a minimum of ten (10)
programs. Accordingly, this plan underscores the importance of annually
endowed professorships to
evaluating the professional conduct of non-faculty staff who are expected
recruit, attract and retain
to uphold the highest standards of professional conduct and serve
leading scholars in the nation;
as positive role models in the campus living-learning community. In
7 Invest in pedagogical addition, office support staff will be instrumental in the University’s
development for faculty at all pursuit of operational excellence. Over the next ten years, the University
levels focusing on assessment will make a concerted effort to encourage staff participation in pre-
tools and the utilization existing and anticipated professional development activities and
of new and emerging incentivize the completion of specialized customer-service training for
technologies in the classroom; the benefit of diverse functional and public-facing units.
7 Annually target a specific
Toward these ends, the Office of Human Resources will explore the
percentage of faculty receiving
feasibility of establishing “job families” comprised of a series of related
Quality Matters training to
job titles with progressively higher levels of knowledge, competencies
promote and improve the
and professional qualities that ultimately lead to meritorious
quality of online education
promotional opportunities over time. A job family will be defined
and enhance student
as a series of related job titles with progressively higher levels of
learning through the use of
knowledge, competencies and demonstrated professional qualities.
its quality assurance systems
Such promotions will be based upon supervisor recommendations, the
and ongoing professional
specific needs of a given department or unit and their concurrence with
development opportunities;
annual budget cycles.
7 Have a minimum of 3–5
Morgan faculty holding These promotions will be noncompetitive and will focus on the
membership in the individual’s contributions to his/her department’s efficiency, its image
National Academies; and its overall level of customer service. Considerations may also include
the individual’s participation in external job enrichment activities, degree
7 Extend Morgan’s position
completion, job rotation and diversified on-the-job training activities.
as the leader among
HBCUs in the appointment Conduct a thorough needs assessment of
and production of employee competency levels, job satisfaction and
Fulbright Scholars; and career aspirations
7 Execute an aggressive
Where appropriate, the Office of Human Resources will create and
faculty recruitment plan to
manage Job Family Committees charged with the responsibility to
address recommendations
oversee and evaluate all staff training and promotion activities and
emanating from the
programs. These committees will screen all applications for job family
University’s Blue Ribbon Panel
promotions and review and make recommendations regarding training
focused on achieving CCIHE
and other requirements necessary to advance through a given job family.
R1 status (Goal 3).
27
MORGAN.EDU LEADING THE FUTURE

===PAGE 28===
Goal 3
Elevate Morgan’s Status to R1 Very High
Doctoral Research University
Morgan State University embraces its mission to serve “… the community,
region, state, nation, and the world as an intellectual and creative
resource by supporting, empowering and preparing high-quality,
diverse graduates to lead the world.” As the University enters the third
decade of the 21st century, designating the attainment of the R1 Carnegie
Classification as a goal focuses our efforts on enriching and diversifying
the scope and magnitude of our scholarship and creativity. Striving
to attain R1 status requires reaching specific indicators shared by
institutions who similarly seek or hold this status. The measures of these
indicators are addressed in this section of the strategic plan. However,
our purpose is more than these metrics. We remain committed to
Morgan’s mission as an “intellectual and creative resource.” The details
of this strategic goal center on two objectives. Objective 1 focuses on the
strategies and metrics for achieving R1 status; while Objective 2 focuses on
the strategies enhancing research and program excellence and metrics for
measuring our overall success.
Primary Goal Statement: Secure the Carnegie
Classification for Institutions of Higher Education
(CCIHE) designation of R1 “very high research
activity institution.”
Doctoral Research Universities (DRU) must demonstrate uncommon
productivity and output in the areas of research, scholarship and graduate
education. There were 261 Institutions of Higher Education included
in the CCIHE most recent 2018 list of DRU. These institutions were then
equally divided in R1 and R2 classifications.
Morgan will track these performance indicators on an annual basis,
statistically determine its comparative CCIHE classification status,
and make data informed decisions and adjustments to foster its
ascent toward R1 status.
THE PURSUIT OF CARNEGIE R1 STATUS
To many, the
The Carnegie Classification® has been the leading framework for
Carnegie R1 recognizing and describing institutional diversity in U.S. higher
education for the past four and a half decades. The U.S. News and World
classification is the
Report strictly maps its categories to The Carnegie Classification of
pinnacle of higher Institutions of Higher Education and are used for rankings and grant
eligibility. Carnegie listings strongly shape how government officials,
education.
independent analysts and academic groups perceive more than 4,600
post-secondary institutions in the United States. To many, the Carnegie R1
classification is the pinnacle of higher education.
Benchmarking toward this ambitious and multi-faceted goal will be aided by a closer examination of R1 urban
Transformation2030
serving, asp2ir8ational peer institutions including but not limited to: The University of California-Riverside, the
MORGAN
University of Central Florida, Wayne State University, Florida International University, SUNY at Albany, the
University of Cincinnati–Main Campus and Washington State University.

===PAGE 29===
Today, African American communities are disproportionately impacted by
three (3) intertwined crises: health disparities (e.g., COVID 19 pandemic),
sustained multi-generational economic disparities, and persistent police
brutality and structural racism. Morgan’s goal to achieve R1 status fully
supports and embraces its role as Maryland’s Preeminent Public Urban
Research University to more fully address issues that disproportionally
impact communities of color. Rising to the R1 classification will enhance
Morgan’s stature to serve as the premier Anchor Institution to the City of
Baltimore, and beyond.
President Wilson has charged Vice President for Research and Economic
Development Dr. Willie E. May with assembling a Blue-Ribbon Panel on
Research Program Expansion to assist in “identifying a few ‘potential
peaks of excellence’ within a number of key technology areas where
Morgan could and should develop programs of national prominence.”
To date, the University is considering an expanded research agenda and
exploring the possibility of establishing peaks of excellence in a limited
number of areas such as:
Advanced Commercial Rocketry
Manufacturing and Hypersonics
Artificial Intelligence Cybersecurity for IOT
and Machine Learning devices
Biotechnology/ Quantum Education/
Engineering Biology Literacy
Brain Science Data Analytics
Climate Science Urban Health Equity
Accordingly, the following benchmarks have been
articulated over a ten-year planning horizon.
7 Achieve annual science Sciences, STEM, Other) 7 Incrementally increase the
and engineering research sufficient to meet doctoral number of tenure track faculty
and development conferral targets. to 388. An increase of 60 FTE
expenditures of $40 million. (18%) above 2018 CCIHE data.
7 Increase total annual doctoral
7 Achieve annual non- conferrals per year to 175 7 Invest and hire in
science and engineering (requires increasing doctoral strategic growth clusters.
research and development enrollment with a four
7 Establish a University
expenditures of $8 million. to six-year lead).
Research Foundation.
7 Develop new doctoral 7 Increase the number of
7 Increase grant
programs in each CCIHE post-doctoral non-faculty
proposal submissions.
category (Humanities, Social research staff to 50.
29
MORGAN.EDU LEADING THE FUTURE

===PAGE 30===
Goal 4
Expand and Improve a Campus-Wide
Infrastructure to Support Operational
Excellence and Increase Overall
Institutional Capacity
Many of the University’s strategic priorities are predicated on the
anticipated increase in student residential enrollment and an infusion of
on-line programs tailored to meet the needs of adult and non-traditional
learners. As a result, new and pressing demands will be placed on the
University’s physical plant and its campus infrastructure. Therefore,
Morgan will advance information technology (IT) initiatives as well as
new construction, capital improvement, deferred maintenance, athletics
facilities and campus safety projects in keeping with the University’s
evolving master plan and its changing space allocation needs.
NEW CONSTRUCTION
7 Complete new Thurgood Marshall dormitory in 2022.
7 Complete a new Health and Human Services Building by 2024.
7 Complete Phase II of housing plan by 2025.
7 Complete a new Science Complex by 2027.
7 Plan for new engineering building and new multipurpose
Convocation Center at Lake Clifton.
SPACE ALLOCATIONS
7 Expand cohort living options for living-learning communities, e.g.,
Honors, CASA, MILE and EVOLVE.
7 Expand virtual labs on campus and redesign Library and study spaces
to embrace innovation and ideation.
CAMPUS SAFETY
7 Allocate operational and previously secured external funding
for the purchase and installation of school ID, camera and
surveillance equipment.
7 Enhance community policing with opening of the new Public Safety
Building at Northwood Commons.
7 Recruit and increase campus security personnel.
Transformation2030
30
MORGAN

===PAGE 31===
INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY PLAN
7 Maintain an industry-standard, service-based IT environment that
facilitates teaching, learning, research and discovery via a research
computing support team and infrastructure (new Enterprise
Resource Planning).
7 Provide an agile suite of technology services to reliably carry out
the daily operations of the University by strengthening IT controls,
specifically pertaining to cybersecurity systems.
7 Serve the IT needs of the entire campus community with an
exemplary, proactive and service-oriented focus on new and emerging
information platforms (TBD).
INSTITUTIONAL ADVANCEMENT, FUNDRAISING
AND ALUMNI ENGAGEMENT
The implementation and execution of this strategic plan are largely
dependent upon the University’s ability to optimize its fundraising
capacities. This will require expanding the advancement staff with
experienced personnel in specific areas of specializations including but
not limited to: strategic partnerships, corporate and foundation
relations, grants management, major gifts, annual giving, planned giving,
and advancement services.
Over the next ten years, the Division of Institutional Advancement in
partnership with the Division of Research and Economic Development
will be tasked with the responsibility to coordinate the work of cross-
disciplinary teams of MSU scholars and researchers to secure funding for
the establishment of various research centers at Morgan. Such centers
would be funded through multi-year grants from state and federal
agencies and through private sources. To date, a National Center for the
Elimination of Educational Disparities and a state-funded Center for
Cybersecurity and Crime Reduction have been postulated. Such centers
would resemble in form and function the evolving Center for Urban
Health Equity at Morgan. In addition to institutional gifts, the Office
of Development within the Division of Institutional Advancement will
develop solicitation strategies to increase the alumni giving rate.
Most importantly, the Division of Institutional Advancement
will ensure the development of a feasibility study and campaign plan by
the Fall, 2022. Such a plan will anticipate an approved Comprehensive
Campaign with an estimated goal in the range of $450M–$500M over
ten years.
ALUMNI ENGAGEMENT
7 Increase the percentage of alumni giving to 20% by 2030.
7 Enhance alumni engagement in programs designed and
implemented by the Center for Career Development.
7 Create more professional networking, mentoring internship and
hiring opportunities for students and alumni, local and abroad.
31
MORGAN.EDU LEADING THE FUTURE

===PAGE 32===
Goal 5
Serve as the Premier Anchor Institution
for Baltimore City and Beyond
Over the next ten years, MSU will deepen and broaden its pivotal
role as a recognized anchor institution in the region. This will entail
the implementation of a comprehensive approach to community
engagement that reinforces the University’s considerable economic
and social impact and leverages its symbiotic relationship with local
communities. Such a model will facilitate discussions that address
key social issues and bring together governmental representatives and
citizens to collaboratively generate critical knowledge and practice
leading to meaningful policy reform and social change.
In this regard, the coming decade will witness the fortification of MSU
as a dynamic institutional epicenter for the convergence of scholarship,
research and advocacy. In keeping with the University’s distinct mission,
each of the units will play a pivotal role in general and applied research
that responds to many of the intractable challenges facing our city, such
as educational and health inequities, community and neighborhood
development, environmental sustainability, and urban violence, to name
a few. Below is a partial listing of anticipated efforts.
7 The University will build out its recently established transdisciplinary
institute on health equity Center for Urban Health Equity at Morgan,
with an ongoing state investment of $3M. This project will be
officially inaugurated in 2021.
7 SEUS will train K–12 teachers in the use of Orton-Gillingham methods
to enhance levels of literacy among K–12 learners.
7 SEUS will increase levels of teacher competency and assist teachers
in gaining National Board Certification, the highest level of teacher
certification.
7 With support from an NSF grant, SEUS will enhance the research
competence of STEM teachers and faculty so that they are able to
build a body of research to inform the practice of STEM teaching
to urban learners.
7 SEUS will develop a Principals Equity Pipeline Initiative designed
to prepare principals for Baltimore City who are equipped to
lead schools that are focused on ensuring equity of outcomes
for all children.
Transformation2030
32
MORGAN

===PAGE 33===
7 SEUS will explore the feasibility and secure funding for a proposed
The National Center for the Elimination of Educational Disparities.
This ambitious aspirational initiative will involve multidisciplinary
teams of faculty who will engage in outreach to parents, communities
and schools in a multi-pronged approach to providing K-12 students
with all of the supports that they need to attain the highest levels of
achievement regardless of their socioeconomic status.
7 The School of Social Work will partner with the Morgan Community
Mile to develop a comprehensive community needs assessment that
will be shared broadly across all academic units, leading to their input
and active participation.
7 The University will develop a Center for Ideation and Innovation
that will provide creative space for University faculty, staff, alumni,
and students to collaborate with community residents to develop
effective interventions and solutions to complex problems ranging
from unemployment in the Black community to opportunities for
entrepreneurship, wealth creation and technology transfer.
7 Expand mandatory internships for undergraduate and graduate
students placed in non-profit agencies and organizations from
150 to over 300 in collaboration with Morgan’s Second Year
Experience Program.
7 Broaden the University’s public and community engagement
infrastructure through the facilitation of interdisciplinary and
transdisciplinary applied research. Elevate the University’s
menu of online programs that support Black and indigenous
people of color (BIPOC).
7 The School of Global Journalism, in partnership with the Schools of
Architecture and Planning, Liberal Arts and Social Work will begin
to host at least five (open to the public) discourses a year focusing
on public policy and matters of direct interest to neighboring
communities (Fall, 2022).
7 The School of Business will seek substantial funding from the
Maryland E-Nnovation Initiative (and other sources) to support
entrepreneurial activities and the recruitment of expert faculty.
Of a more immediate nature, Morgan will keep a watchful eye
on the anticipated Congressional approval of President Biden’s
Build Back Better Agenda and other proposed initiatives. With
appropriated governmental and private investments, Morgan can
play an exemplary leadership role in developing and implementing
replicable educational and entrepreneurial programs that address
a widening race-based income gap and mitigate ongoing racial
disparities in health care, education and affordable housing.
33
MORGAN.EDU LEADING THE FUTURE

===PAGE 34===
Goal 6
Accelerate Global Education
Initiatives and Expand the University’s
International Footprint
The University’s Division of International Affairs has articulated a bold
vision to bring to fruition MORGAN GLOBAL over the next ten years.
This ambitious initiative will unfold over the next ten years and will
expand the University’s international footprint by enabling it to open
and operate “satellite campuses” in key locations around the world. These
international satellite campuses will serve two purposes:
1) To expand Morgan’s brand recognition around the world in
order to recruit and enroll more international students (in
Baltimore and overseas) and
2) support our domestic students to become truly global citizens
by allowing them to study abroad (short and long term) using
these international campuses.
These mutually reinforcing goals will be
achieved through the following means.
MORGAN Enroll Build upon the ongoing
TET Fund
GLOBAL 800 to
Initiative
1,000
GOALS
in Nigeria and develop a replicable model
for forging similar partnerships in Ghana
international
and other African nations (Fall 2022).
students
who will attend Morgan Offer a
Global face to face
(Baltimore and satellite West Africa-
campuses overseas) and
online (Morgan Online). Ghana MBA
(Current enrollment
is 400 international and other master’s degree programs once
students in Baltimore.) local accreditation is approved (Fall 2022).
Transformation2030
34
MORGAN

===PAGE 35===
INTERNATIONAL
EDUCATION GOALS
(MAIN CAMPUS)
At the same time, the University
remains committed to
cultivating a campus culture
that celebrates, supports and
promotes internationalization,
global learning and intercultural
competencies among students,
faculty and staff.
Develop a program Increase international Prepare Morgan students
Work to provide
effectiveness survey to student diversity to be competitive
10% of Morgan
evaluate all administered and quality. Double for the Rhodes,
students with
and third-party programs. the number of Marshall and Newman
an international
Create an annual evaluation international scholarships and other
experience
instrument to be utilized students from 400 prestigious prizes over
by 2030
beginning in Fall 2022. to 800 in ten years. the next ten years.
Launch cube Forge a Hire a
satellites that partnership with Director for
connect West
Kenyatta Engineering/
& East African
University & STEM
universities
local NGOs partnerships
in Fall 2022 or Spring 2023, and in
to develop joint in Africa
other places in Latin America and (part time).
projects in STEM areas.
the Caribbean, as appropriate.
Launch
Morgan alumni chapters outside of the
United States
including the first international chapter, Morgan State University
Kenya Alumni chapter, that will help forge strategic partnerships in
Kenya and recruit more international students from Kenya.
35
MORGAN.EDU LEADING THE FUTURE

===PAGE 36===
Enterprise Planning at
Morgan State University:
THE ROAD
AHEAD
Transformation2030
36
MORGAN

===PAGE 37===
“
We must transform our institutions so that
the entire enterprise operates from a growth
mind-set (Dweck, 2006), where mistakes and
missteps are seen as excellent opportunities to
”
develop our individual and collective brain.
– Cia Verschelden
37
MORGAN.EDU LEADING THE FUTURE

===PAGE 38===
O
Our Transformation Morgan 2030 Strategic Plan represents
an important step forward in the organizational life cycle
of this institution. This plan is the product of intense
internal discussion and institutional self-assessment.
However, its implementation is inextricably interwoven
with and dependent upon close collaboration with
external entities in the private sector and in governmental
agencies at the municipal, state and federal levels. Clearly,
Morgan State University is compelled to do more “active
listening” if it is to expand its role as a recognized anchor
institution in the region.
Therefore, in the years ahead, the University’s Looking ahead, we are determined to employ an
Division of Institutional Advancement and its Office enterprise-approach to organizational change
of Governmental Relations will take full advantage whereby all units embrace a shared responsibility
of symbiotic relationships and forge synergistic for our institutional health and vitality. Similar to
partnerships with a broad spectrum of organizations our counterparts in business, we intend to take into
with similar strategic objectives and goals. In fact, consideration data-driven trends and analyses. In
it is difficult to imagine the actualization of many addition, we will no longer focus on one or a singular
of our strategic goals without the involvement of subset of performance outcomes to the exclusion of
“outside entities” that understand and appreciate our others. Instead, we will utilize operational processes
distinctive educational mission and view themselves that (in our case) encompass a thoughtful integration
as viable partners in most of our undertakings. of marketing and student recruitment functions, a
systematic and regular assessment of our current and
Also, this plan signals a deeper appreciation and
proposed educational programs and co-curricular
application of principles of enterprise planning in
offerings and exemplary customer service.
higher education. In brief, Morgan State University is
intentionally abandoning tendencies toward “silo- At Morgan, we intend to adhere to what the public
ing” and the unwitting and unfortunate Balkanization sector refers to as a “whole of government approach”
of various academic units and departments. Such to problem solving and constructive change. This
silos tend to operate independently and avoid sharing critically important organizational characteristic will
constructive and problem-solving information and mark the road ahead and lead to the fulfillment of our
insights. In the past, such proclivities have reduced highest aspirations.
our overall efficiency and undermined the culture of
continuous improvement that we want to cultivate
and maintain here at Morgan.
Transformation2030
38
MORGAN

===PAGE 39===
39
MORGAN.EDU LEADING THE FUTURE

===PAGE 40===
The
Road
Ahead
…
“
…Then the hand seeks
other hands to help,
A community of hands to help–
Thus the dream becomes not
one man’s dream alone,
But a community dream.
Not my dream alone, but our dream.
Not my world alone,
But your world and my world,
”
Belonging to all the
hands who build.
–Langston Hughes
Morgan State The Honorable Kweisi Mfume, Chairman Burney J. Hollis, Ph.D. William A. Sherman, II, Esq.
University U.S. Congressman, 7th District of Maryland Retired Professor of English and Equity Partner, Dinsmore & Shohl LLP
Dean Emeritus of the College of Liberal Arts,
Board of Regents Gen. Larry R. Ellis, Vice Chair Shelonda D. Stokes
Morgan State University
U.S. Army (Ret.) President, Downtown Partnership
Emily M. Hunter of Baltimore
Tracey L. Parker-Warren, Secretary
Principal, Arlington Elementary School,
Administrative Law Judge, Maryland Office Carl W. Turnipseed
Baltimore City Public Schools
of Administrative Hearings Retired Executive Vice President,
Owner, Nothing Bundt Cakes,
Federal Reserve Bank of New York
McCall Brown Owings Mills, Maryland
Student Regent Marquis Walker, Ph.D.
Shirley M. Malcom, Ph.D.
Post-doctoral Fellow, The Johns Hopkins
Harold Carter Jr. Head, The Directorate for Education and
University School of Medicine
Pastor, New Shiloh Baptist Church Human Resources Programs, American
Linda J. Gilliam, D.M.D. Association for the Advancement of Science Winston A. Wilkinson
Chief of Staff, Maryland Governor’s
Former Chairperson of the Board of Wayne Resnick
Office of Community Initiatives
Directors, Gilliam Foundation President and CEO, Martin’s Caterers
President’s Hongtao Yu, Ph.D. Donna J. Howard Erlease M. Wagner
Administrative Provost and Senior Vice President, Vice President, Institutional Advancement Interim Vice President and
Academic Affairs Athletic Director
Team Willie E. May, Ph.D.
Sidney H. Evans Jr. Vice President, Research and Armanda Grant
Executive Vice President, Economic Development Special Assistant to the President
Finance and Administration
Adebisi Oladipupo, D.Sc. Julie Goodwin
Don-Terry Veal, Ph.D. Vice President/Chief Information Officer, General Counsel
Vice President, State and Federal Relations Division of Information Technology
Abraham Mauer
and Chief of Staff
Kara M. Turner, Ph.D. Director, Internal Audit and
Kevin Banks, Ed.D. Vice President, Enrollment Management Management Review
Vice President, Student Affairs and Student Success
Morgan State University | 1700 East Cold Spring Lane | Baltimore, Maryland 21251 morgan.edu

